## Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)

GANs or Generative Adversarial Networks are a kind of neural networks that is composed of 2 separate deep neural networks competing each other: the generator and the discriminator.
  * Generator: 
    * To gain an intuition, let's say that “The generator will try to generate fake images that fool the discriminator into thinking that they’re real. And the discriminator will try to distinguish between a real and a generated image as best as it could when an image is fed.” 
    * In the starting phase, a Generator model takes random noise signals as input and generates a random noisy image as the output, gradually with the help of the Discriminator, it starts generating images of a particular class that look real.
  * Discriminator:
    * The Discriminator which will be the opponent of Generator is fed with both the generated images as well as a certain class of images at the same time, allowing it to tell the generated how the real image looks like.
    * After reaching a certain point, the Discriminator will be unable to tell if the generate image is a real or a fake image, and that is when we can see images of a certain class(class that the discriminator is trained with.) being generated by out Generator that never actually existed before.




**From the official GAN paper:**

The generative model can be thought of as analogous to a team of counterfeiters, trying to produce fake currency and use it without detection, while the discriminative model is analogous to the police, trying to detect the counterfeit currency. Competition in this game drives both teams to improve their methods until the counterfeits are indistiguishable from the genuine articles.

Their goal is to generate data points that are magically similar to some of the data points in the training set. Currently, people use GAN to generate various things. It can generate realistic images, 3D-models, videos, deepfake, resolution enhancement, and a lot more.


### References
Additional reading:

Chanchana Sornsoontorn, 2017, How do GANs intuitively work? [here](https://hackernoon.com/how-do-gans-intuitively-work-2dda07f247a1)
Understanding and building Generative Adversarial Networks(GANs)- Deep Learning with PyTorch [here](https://becominghuman.ai/understanding-and-building-generative-adversarial-networks-gans-8de7c1dc0e25)
Ian Goodfellow et al., 2014, Generative Adversarial Nets
Matthew D. Zeiler et al., 2011, Adaptive Deconvolutional Networks for Mid and High Level Feature Learning
Alec Radford et al., 2015, Unsupervised Representation Learning With Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks
ARTIST Vs. PIX2PIX - Is This Humor Or Horror?! YouTube Video
